>> Kyle Simpson: Let's try an exercise
on this topic of immutability.
Get some practice with both
assignment immutability as well
as value immutability and
of a couple of different kinds.
We'll look first at read only
data structures and then we'll
also look at not changing a data structure
that's been passed into the function.
This exercise won't be covering
actual immutable data structures like
immutable js.
But hopefully,
these concepts will transfer into working
with something like immutable chance.
In this exercise, you're gonna be
generating a set of lottery numbers.
And because we're doing generation
of lottery numbers, of course,
it's random generation.
The goal here is to make
everything else pure except for
that call that is doing
a random number generation.
We wanna leave that everything else
using all of the principles that
we've learned so
far in the course about function purity.
So if I switch over to the exercise file,
you'll notice that we have a function that
does the generation of
a random lottery number.
That's okay that that one is impure, but
we want to leave everything else
according to our principles.
So we're going to fill out a definition
for a pick number function.
And you'll notice that I have a wild true
loop there that supposed to pick a number
and stick it in in some way into
the lucky lottery numbers array.
Now, that is pretty easy,
we could just stick the numbers in.
But the Read Me details
a set of constraints.
First of all,
we want no duplicate lottery numbers.
Now, that's not all that
likely that you would
randomly generate the same lottery number.
We wanna ensure that they
are no duplicates, so
we wanna have unique lottery numbers.
Also additionally, we want our pick number
to make sure that lucky lottery numbers
always stays sorted in ascending order.
So essentially, what you're gonna
want to do is have pick number
generate a number and stick it into
the lucky lottery numbers list.
If it's not already there and
then make sure the list is sorted.
Now, keep in mind, that if pick
number calls lottery known directly,
that makes pick number
not a pure function.
So, remember what we talked about,
about extracting impurity,
we don't want to embed the impurity
if there's someway to extract it.
So, keep that in mind
also with the exercise.